---
title: Equality versus Fairness
date: 2012-10-17
summary: >
  Being an American expatriate, especially living in the United Kingdom, gives a
  particular perspective on US society.  I think this is highlighted during the
  Presidential election, when you see Americans en masse struggle with the
  concepts of equality and fairness.
tags:
  - society
  - cultural norms
author: kitsonk
---

Being an American expatriate, especially living in the United Kingdom, gives a
particular perspective on US society. I think this is highlighted during the
Presidential election, when you see Americans _en masse_ struggle with the
concepts of equality and fairness.

Equality and fairness or concepts that are easily confused. Especially because
one of the main tenants that the United States was founded on was equality, it
is easy for that to be muddled with the concept of fairness. My opinion though
is the aggrieved, both liberal and conservative, are arguing about fairness.
Equality means everyone, no matter what, is treated in the same way by the
government and society. Ultimately Americans don’t want this. This is actually a
far more French concept, where muslims are made to remove their religious
garments in order to ensure equality. It is manifest in Northern European
governments and societies, where people are taxed into equality by the
government. Americans don’t want that. A land of opportunity cannot survive on
equality.

Fairness on the other hand, is that people are treated consistently and in line
with the merit of their actions. This is what Americans are really getting at.
It is what is driving the concern about the 1%, feeling that somehow the 1% were
able to get a special “member’s only” pass. The right argue that if people don’t
work, they shouldn’t get money from the government. Again, fairness at the root
of it all.

In the UK, while equality and fairness are often confused, it is fairness that
bubbles to the top. People, consciously or unconsciously get upset when the
rules of fairness are broken. Fairness is far more important than equality in
the UK. The political parties mention it in their rhetoric and policy often
enshrines this, versus equality. Equality is presumed to a degree, but fairness
will trump equality every time.

In the current Presidential election, I think it is generally unstated, but the
main driving factors behind who will vote for which candiate is actually far
more about their perceived fairness than anything else. Those voting for Romney
will do so because they believe “hard work” will be treated fairly, and if you
have been successful, you will be protected and not treated unfairly. Those
voting for Obama believe that a large portion of the population haven’t been
historically treated fairly and haven’t had the right opportunities to take
advantage of and see that Obama will continue to protect those at the cost of
those who can afford it. Both sides believe the other candidate will treat a
segment of society unfairly.

If we were to move our dialogue to better articulate fairness, to better
understand what is really important to us, then we might actually move forward
the conversation.
