---
title: Gastric Sleeve Update
date: 2011-09-10
summary: >
  A while ago, I wrote about my Gastric Sleeve surgery, and figured it was about
  time to provide an update.  So 7 months on, and where am I at?
tags:
  - gastric surgery
  - weight loss
author: kitsonk
---

A while ago,
[I wrote about my Gastric Sleeve surgery](./Gastric-Sleeve-Weight-Loss), and
figured it was about time to provide an update. So 7 months on, and where am I
at?

![Weight loss from FEb 2011 to Sep 2011 chart](/images/Weight-Loss-Update.png)

While I have had a few gaps in my recording of my weight, you can see as I am
approach my target of 195 lbs (88.5 kg/13st 13lbs), there has been a general
flattening of the weight loss, which hopefully will allow me to stay right
around the 195 lbs mark for the rest of my life. For me mentally it is a bit
strange, because ever since I “noticed” my weight as a teenager/pre-pubescent, I
was trying to loose weight, now I will move into a “maintain weight” mode. That
is almost 30 years of trying to lose weight done, mission accomplished.

Some people will wonder “what about the skin?” Well, that is a lot less
challenging than I thought it would be. There are certainly some things I am not
happy with, but with my clothes on, you can’t really tell. When I see pictures
of myself though, I see a slightly oddly shaped part where my belly is hiding.
It does move you to think about cosmetic surgery, because you figure you have
come this far, might as well get as close to “normal” as current medical options
allow.

There is still mental disconnect between how your big you perceive your body and
actually how big it really is and sometimes you shock yourself. Lots of times I
look at my clothes and think to myself “these can’t be mine, because they are
way too small”. Also, I have found out with shopping, I have to try everything
on, because I can’t judge my size anymore. Also, I used to drown myself in my
clothes, anything form fitting or tight was absolutely a no-go area. Trying on a
few shirts that are tight, but looking in the mirror and seeing “wait, I don’t
look like some sort of stuffed sausage.”

My diet has stabilised though. I have quite regular food now, mostly nuts for
protein though and fish (especially sushi) and then yogurt and cheese. While it
might not be ideal, I have plenty of energy and as long as I keep to taking a
multi-vitamin, a recent blood test indicates that everything is healthy. For
anyone in the middle of the process though, who is worried they might be eating
the wrong things, best thing to do is stop worrying. Focus on protein and let
everything else take its natural course. I stopped eating anything that said
low-calorie or low-fat, including yogurt. I figured I eat so little now that
anything that was designed to fill me up, but not give me nourishment, is simply
a waste. My doctor has told me that recent studies have shown people with weight
loss surgery sometimes stick to the “low-fat” food and then start having
problems with not enough fat in their diets.

I recently went on holiday and knew that I would be doing a lot more activity
than my typical sedentary work-life allowed and so I didn’t eat what I felt like
eating (which is pretty much what I do now) I ate until I was stuffed, 3 times a
day. Now me eating with a sleeve until I am stuffed is still only like 1/2 a
normal 3-course meal, but I really tried hard. I came back from the holiday, not
sure if I had put on weight or loss and lo and behold, I was exactly the same
weight I was 2 weeks prior, and then over the next week, returning to my normal
eating habits, I shed 6 lbs in 4 days. I suspect it was the increased metabolism
coupled back to my small amount of calories.

The only “challenge” long-term is the BM situation. While it continues to get
better and more regular, it isn’t the most consistent thing in the world and
sometimes I struggle. It isn’t the worst thing in the world, and I suspect if it
were a real problem for me, I would try to do more about it. I am almost back to
daily activity, so to speak, which is a good sign.
