---
title: In Memory...
date: 2011-09-11
summary: >
  Ten years on and I still remember that day very well.  I was working in
  Dublin, at a client site, looking down onto College Green.  It happened that
  there were two other American’s in the office with me, my boss and a peer of
  mine.  It was just another day.
author: kitsonk
---

Ten years on and I still remember that day very well. I was working in Dublin,
at a client site, looking down onto College Green. It happened that there were
two other American’s in the office with me, my boss and a peer of mine. It was
just another day. At some point, my peer got a phone call from her Mother in the
states and said something crazy about a plane hitting the twin towers in New
York. We all sat there rather shocked.

My initial instinct was to jump onto CNN.com and I couldn’t pull it up. Trying a
few other news sites was similar. So I fell back to something that I knew would
also be reliable, [slashdot.org](https://slashdot.org/) and lo and behold,
things were going on (and the nerds of the world had found ways to directly
access CNN, not through their load balancers, in order to get some information).

I will admit after that, things become a bit blurry, other than getting ahold of
my sister, who was staying in my house in Chicago and hearing some of the news
“real time”, which would be best described as utter chaos and panic. At some
point, we decided it best we went home. Everyone was horrified and the constant
banter, knowing we were Americans, of people asking us if our families were all
right, etc, was getting a bit overwhelming. I don’t really remember clearly
exactly how I got home, but I remember sitting their, in the lounge watching the
news. My partner’s mum and step-dad were visiting us that week and I remember
them asking if everything was ok. I think I was more deeply in shock than I
think I was willing to admit and so I went up stairs and to bed way too early.

One of the things I think we collectively forgot was the anthrax attack that
ensued afterwards. Maybe because we never found anyone to blame, like the plane
attacks, or maybe because we all suspect and know it was a lone individual
American, both of which don’t sit comfortably. There was lots of information and
dis-information in the hours and days after the attacks. It was good news to
hear that all my co-workers had been accounted for. We had some clients in the
world trade center and some of our people were working there, so it wasn’t a
forgone conclusion. Also, lots of my co-workers, who most of us flew every week,
we stranded in all sorts of interesting places and all have their own stories
about that time, but in the end, we were all safe.

The uncertainty and confusion that ensued after that was one of the things I
remember. The good news was that people were behaving well, but it wasn’t easy.
No one knew what to do. My partner and I had a trip back to Chicago booked on
the 15th, and then I was going to go on to Phoenix to attend my 10 year High
School reunion a week later. The problem was we didn’t know when the
international travel ban would be lifted and we guessed it would be better to
wait and hope for the best. Well the day of the 15th arrived and the ban wasn’t
lifted until later in the day US time, so we had to rebook and the next time
they could get us out was a week later.

We had planned for going away for a few weeks, so we didn’t have any food in the
house. To complicate things, the Republic of Ireland had declared a national day
of mourning on that Friday, out of respect. Everything would be closed. I felt
compelled to visit the US Embassy and pay my respects, so I took that
opportunity. I have never to this day seen something that moved me as much as
the mass mourning that was occurring, the huge pile of memorial flowers and
gifts that had been laid at the door, the makeshift tent that housed a guest
book for people to sign and the length of queue of people paying their respects.

After that, I went to go to try to find us some food. We both were hungry, but
the streets were literally abandoned. More abandoned than I had ever seen
Dublin, including the World Cup. Nothing appeared to be open, except I found a
Post Office/Mini Mart that had only planned to be open until 12:00 so that
people could take out their pension money, but at 1PM they knew they wouldn’t be
able to close because there was a queue out onto the street of people needing
food and sundries. I was able to get two sandwiches and head back to the house.

We needed to go find some dinner too, and so the both of us ventured out and we
found a petrol station that was open. There was a huge queue of cars trying to
get petrol and the attached mini-mart’s shelves were essentially bare and the
poor kid was spending all his time hauling stock out of the back and just
dumping it and essentially as soon as it was available, people would snap it up
and pay for it. I think we walked away with a couple bottles of sport drink and
a packet or two of odd flavoured crisps. As we walked around Dublin, about 8PM,
a few restaurants had decided to open and people started to wander the streets,
like zombies as night fell. It was the strangest most bizarre experience I have
had in a city.

A week later, we finally flew out to Chicago and I had re-arranged my trip to
Phoenix by a day, so I was essentially flying in on a Friday to Chicago and then
on Saturday flying to Phoenix for the reunion. Once we had set down in the US, I
realised they had collectively gone mad. Instead of the experience I had in
Dublin through the tragedy, which was somber, sad and respectful, I landed into
a land of American flags, patriotism and anger. I just didn’t get it. I don’t
know if I had been in the States when it occurred if I would have gotten caught
up in the madness, but this was probably the start of my realisation that while
I will always be proud of my birthright, my upbringing and my country that I am
now not like the vast majority of Americans and will never be. It isn’t a good
or bad thing, but your life influences your viewpoint and our markedly different
collective experiences has put us on divergent paths that I don’t think will
ever come together again.

Ten years on, I had to live through the scare of Simon living and working in
London on the 7/7 bombings, seeing firsthand the damage at Glasgow airport and
lost a cousin who was serving in the war in Iraq. Real, tangible events that
have affected me in the post-9/11 world. That is on top of the countless times
removing my shoes, being patted down, removing my belt, laptop and liquids while
going through an airport. It is a different world.
