---
title: National Insurance Number (NIN) Application Experience
date: 2007-01-13 16:54:00
summary: >
  Here is my recent (January 2007) experience in apply for my National Insurance
  Number after receiving my Civil Partnership FLR Visa and getting a job.
author: kitsonk
tags:
  - immigration
---

Here is my recent (January 2007) experience in apply for my National Insurance
Number after receiving my Civil Partnership FLR Visa and getting a job. The
process started by calling the NIN Application Line (0845 600 0643). The asked
some basic questions to ensure that I was eligible for a NIN. The person I was
talking to was obviously filling out some sort of electronic form. When it got
to how I had the right to work in the UK, I indicated that it was because of my
FLR for a Civil Partnership. This seemed to confuse the lady on the phone. She
didn’t have a good understanding of immigration or the fact that civil
partnerships were legal in the UK. Finally I just stated that in other cases I
simply just say marriage. She finally selected the right “option” on the form
and proceeded to book my appointment. It is important to note that they are
going to be looking for four pieces of information, depending on your situation
and you have essentially “committed” to bringing these things to the interview.
For me they were my passport (proof of identity/right to work), my council tax
bill (proof of address) and my work contract (proof of employment). There are
several options in each category. Either way, make sure you bring what you said,
otherwise it might make things more difficult. She booked me in, about a week
later, at a nearby jobs centre.

I received a letter in the mail that indicated my appointment time, the
location, and what I had committed to bring. I suggest brining this with you,
because it will make it easier to find you reservation when you arrive at the
centre.

I showed up to my local jobs centre a few minutes ahead of time (the letter
indicated that if I were late, I may not be seen, like most good government
letters). There was a large board with the printout of all the appointments
throughout the day. This centre had two receptions. I couldn’t find my name on
the board. I looked and looked. Finally I went to the first reception (the funny
thing was there was Reception 1 and Reception 3, but no Reception 2) and showed
my form. She found me on her list and grabbed a sheet of paper and said “here we
go” and had me take a seat.

It took about 10 minutes for my name to be called and was walked over by a
gentleman to a desk where he had a huge multi-page, multi-part form and the
sheet that receptionist had found. He started through a bit of a spiel about how
he was to fill out the form, that it would take about 15-20 minutes with me and
then would be reviewed by a co-worker which would take 10-15 minutes and then my
documentation would be returned back to me. Then it would take up to 6 weeks to
receive the NIN, though it normally takes about 3 weeks. He said “I understand
you have brought some documentation for me today.”

At that point he asked for each of the things that I had promised to bring,
surveyed them briefly and then asked “do you have a bank account in the UK?” I
said yes, which I did, and he said “with what Bank?” and I said “HSBC”. At that
the conversation ended and then he started filling out the form.

As he got to certain sections he would ask me a question, like when did I first
arrive in the UK, which was rather difficult for me, and he indicated that it
was often difficult for a lot of people. He said it was even for 5 minutes in
the UK that we needed to record. We dug through my passport and found the first
Heathrow stamp, which was me actually continuing on to Ireland. We agreed that
was the first date which he wrote down. We also figured when I had been here for
this time and if I had left for greater then 30 days since arriving. We also
went through information about my partner (though I was not required to provide
any proof) and he asked if I had brought any pay stubs. I hadn’t because I
hadn’t been asked to, which he seemed fine with.

After a while he finished the form (as a side note, the form was about twice as
long as the SET-M, which I found quite funny, that it was less paperwork to live
in the country then to get credit for paying taxes). He ran off to copy my
documentation. He said for me to look over the form and make sure it was
correct. I did and everything was fine, I also took a look at the “appointment
paper”. I noticed a few things, one that the documents I said I would bring were
specifically on there again, plus a whole summary of the conversation I had with
the intake call centre. Finally I noticed that the call centre I called was some
sort of out sourced call centre (based on the name of the company and address of
where the appointment form came from).

When he came back, he stamped each copy with a read stamp and make me sign and
date that they were accurate copies of the documents I had provided. He also
made me sign my employment contract (it had been my copy which I had not signed
or returned because it was for my files). He said that one time, he sent one of
these on without the employment contract signed and some guy up the line
rejected it because “it wasn’t official because the employee hadn’t signed”. We
had a bit of a life about government process at which point he told me about the
bank question. They ask the question in part to prove identity. They assume that
if you have opened a bank account that someone has looked into your identity. He
stated the problem is because of the data protection act, they cannot take any
of the personal information or make copies of any bank statements, so the
basically take your word for it.

Then he bundled up all my stuff and told me to have a seat while a co-worker
checked through the documents. I saw there was a back office with the door shut
and every once in a while the guy would come out and hand back paperwork to
people. Instead of taking 15 minutes to review my paperwork, it took about 35
minutes. During that time, he only returned a grand total of 4 packets to
people, which meant that he was only reviewing at about twice the pace of the
people doing the interviews and filling out the form.

I was given back my originals and a sheet of paper that is my receipt. I will
now wait my three to six weeks to receive my number.
