---
title: Sick America
date: 2017-06-25 16:55:36
hero: /images/Healthcare.jpg
summary: >
  Having now lived full time outside of the US for over a decade, in the UK
  where we have socialised medical care. A word I was taught from all aspects as
  evil and anti-American. I can say without a doubt, I would never go back.
tags:
  - politics
  - America
author: kitsonk
---

Having now lived full time outside of the US for over a decade, in the UK where we have _socialised_ medical care. A
word I was taught from all aspects as _evil_ and _anti-American_. I can say without a doubt, I would never go back.

<!-- more -->

![One Does Not Simply Get Healthcare in America](/images/Healthcare.jpg)

In 1981 in the US, only 8% of families cited medical bills as reasons for their bankruptcy, by 2009, it was estimated
that that was 62.1%[<sup>1</sup>](http://amjmed.org/under-aca-medical-bankruptcy-continues/). I recently saw an old high
school friend, who was an avid Trump supporter, who totally opposes ACA and mandated insurance, and I can only assume
any form of _socialised_ medicine, re-post someone's GoFundMe page. It was a stark realisation that American's are
deluding themselves. After, mostly likely, working hard, paying taxes and living in the _greatest country in the world_,
they would rather value their _liberty_ over security, basically reverting to modern day version of panhandling on the
street corner. To add insult to injury, 90% of GoFundMe campaigns feel to meet their
target[<sup>2</sup>](http://www.beckershospitalreview.com/finance/90-of-gofundme-campaigns-for-medical-expenses-failed-achieve-financial-target-study-finds.html).

I am lucky that my [employer](https://www.sitepen.com/) provides good medical insurance for those living in the US, but
even with that, I had a co-worker need to have his gall bladder removed. It was an interesting experiment, because I had
mine removed about 2 and a half years ago. We would be able to compare like for like. His was an outpatient procedure,
of which with deductibles and other charges, meant he was out of pocket about $5,000 for the procedure. The insurance
company was charged in excess of $35,000 for it.

My gall bladder became an urgent issue and my GP told me to go to the Accident and Emergency (A&E, like the US E.R.). I
ended up going to St. George's, which is the busiest hospital in the UK, in South London, near were I live. It is a
National Health Service (NHS) hospital. I was seen by a triage nurse and once my medical records got pulled up, and they
saw my blood tests, I was back in a room to be seen within about 15 minutes, getting put onto fluids. I got seen by two
doctors who were both concerned, suspected my gall bladder, and admitted me. I ended up spending five days in hospital.
Paperwork filled out, none. Co-pays, none. Bills in the mail? None. One thing was clear, my gall bladder needed to be
removed.

I worked for a different employer at the time I had mine, and we were lucky that they offered private health insurance.
Yes, there is private health insurance in the UK. Front line services are still done through the NHS, but if you have
private, you can get medically necessary tests and procedures done privately. I mentioned this when I was in hospital,
and the head nurse for my area of medicine told me that the consulting physician who had been overseeing my care also
did private practice, and likely could perform my removal.

So the day I got out of hospital, I called his secretary who told me what procedure I needed to get authorised with the
insurance company, and told me the private hospital I should ask for. A quick call to the insurance company and they
said that they didn't want to cover him at that hospital but another one nearby, and their records showed he practiced
there as well. Another quick call to the secretary and everything was settled. No paperwork, no billing codes, no
hassle. I got a call back a few hours later from the secretary asking if I could go in on Thursday for my pre-operation
checks for an operation on a Thursday. Basically a week from when I got out of hospital.

I had to fill out one sheet of paperwork when I went for my pre-operation checks and when I showed up on the Tuesday, I
had to sign a couple more medical release forms after they were explained to me. No co-payments, nothing out of pocket.
I was put in a private room, backing onto a golf course. I came out of surgery fine and spent two nights in the
hospital. They let me eat fairly normally the second night and wow, the food was fantastic. I left with the medicine I
needed post-op in hand. No prescriptions to fill.

A few weeks later, I get a bill in the post. The reckoning was due. I had a deductible of £125 to pay. The total amount
charged the insurance company? About £6,500.

I was a bit unlucky and had a minor complication. I ended up back at St. George's for another five nights. This was the
ugliest part I had with the NHS. While they don't charge you anything, they do work in their little silos. Basically
they repeatedly made mistakes about getting me the tests the attending doctor wanted, and they didn't want me to leave
until they saw I was ok from the tests. Finally I bartered my way out of the hospital after 5 days of being pumped full
of anti-biotics and fluids. Again, no paperwork, no charges, just five days of my life I won't ever get back.

And this isn't my only experience with the NHS. When I was in Scotland, I had kidney stones and came back from Canada
with a fractured eye socket. Both of those experiences, fully on the NHS, were really good. Again, all without bills,
co-pays, or even paperwork. When I go to visit my GP, I walk up to a machine, type in my birthday, it confirms my
appointment time, and usually within 5 minutes of my time, my name pops up on the board to go see my GP. You walk in,
you meet your GP, they do what they need to do, and you leave. If it is a prescription, you go to a pharmacy and have it
filled. About £9 if you can afford it, or free if you are old or on social welfare (or in Scotland).

Why would I ever want to go back to the system in America? At worst it is like the bad HMOs in the US. Best of all, you
don't worry about it. You know if you get sick, you will be taken care of. All these fears of people _draining_ the
system. Yeah, you have people who abuse every system there is. Who is to say there aren't people leeching off your
private insurance now. Like having a right to be educated, people should have a right to have medical care. It is
morally wrong to deny people that freedom.

While, ACA/Obamacare may not be the right solution, the solutions being proposed in the US are only stepping further
away from universal healthcare. Individual mandates aren't abridging liberty. I am not sure who is peddling this, but
they are ignorant or evil. Healtcare costs in the US are _insane_ though, but healthcare shouldn't be a profit centre,
where nameless corporations are making profits. If the only choice we had was for profit education, only the wealthy
would benefit from that, because they are the only ones who could afford it. If education is a universal right, why is
not healthcare?

Really, if you do not support some form of universal, free at the point of service healthcare, you don't have your head
screwed on right, and need to go see a doctor, if you can afford one.
