---
title: Surrogacy...
date: 2011-09-18
summary: >
  While this might be a controversial topic for some, a gay couple considering
  surrogacy, for Simon and myself it has become a realistic proposition.  This
  weekend we attended the Alternative Families Show 2011 in London.
tags:
  - surrogacy
author: kitsonk
---

While this might be a controversial topic for some, a gay couple considering
surrogacy, for Simon and myself it has become a realistic proposition. This
weekend we attended the
[Alternative Families Show 2011](https://twitter.com/altfamshow) in London. It
was quite informative and insightful. It also was great to find out we were not
alone and that there is a thriving industry, both in the UK, US and India
providing focused family services to the gay and lesbian community.

I will admit, my emotions and thoughts about having a family have swayed over
the years, from thinking that it would never be possible to thinking that
adoption might be viable to now honestly considering surrogacy as the way to
accomplish it. We are lucky to be comfortable financially. A child, via
surrogacy, will cost you about $120,000 USD (~£76,000) in the US and about
$40,000 (~£25,000) USD in India. While both of those are staggering amounts of
money, they are not beyond the realm of possibility for us. The strange thing is
that these large amounts follow Britain’s regressive rules against commercial
surrogacy.

Both Simon and I have come to the realisation that a family is a desire that is
immutable in both of us. Having been a couple for almost 12 years and civil
partners for almost 5, we have been unable to shake that desire. The decision
became even more difficult as we furthered ourselves from the other options of
adoption, fostering and co-parenting. Knowing that there was a special
responsibility upon us imposed by society, we worried about making a decision
that would proactively bring children into this world. For me, the watershed
moment though was the realisation that through being able to leverage our
resources, we can specifically give advantages to these new children, even
before they are born. We are in a lucky situations of being able to make sure
our family has as much advantages to offset and residual societal disadvantages
that we may have to endure.

As I have discovered through the years, the people I know, the people who know
me, treat me first as “Kit” and don’t ever reduce me down to “gay man” or
“American”. I suspect the people that matter to myself and Simon will be
supportive, just as they have been supportive of our relationship, even though
they may not understand or it may make them feel uncomfortable.

Engineering a family sounds a little impersonal, but it is a great thing to be
able to proactively make choices about your family. Society will have to face
this Gattaca one day, but for right now, being in such a minority, I feel no
moral qualms. I also have gotten far more comfortable with myself and my life
over the years to know that the decision we are considering is acceptable too. I
am not ignorant enough to know that everyone will be comfortable or even
approve.

For now, it was a lot of information. While we have a good understanding of
where we are at, we are not totally locked into where or when we will do it,
other than we know we will be doing it. Having lawyers, doctors, psychiatrists,
agents, donors, immigration specialists and the surrogate is a complicated
process, it is also lengthy at 18+ months. Even then there is no guarantee, we
could easily be out a good portion of the money and not end up with a family.
There are certainly situations where I am envious that one drunken night is
usually all it takes for most people.
